# Introduction

## What is JavaScript

**JavaScript** is a lightweight, interpreted **programming** language. It is commonly used to create dynamic and interactive elements in web applications. **JavaScript** is very easy to implement because it is integrated with HTML. It is open and cross-platform.

## Why to Learn JavaScript?

JavaScript is a **MUST** for students and working professionals to become a great Software Engineer, especially when they are working in *Web Development Domain*.

* JavaScript is the **most popular programming language** in the world, making it a programmer's great choice. 
* JavaScript is everywhere, it comes installed on every modern web browser and so to learn JavaScript, you really do not need any special environment setup.
* JavaScript helps you create really beautiful and crazy fast websites.
* JavaScript usage has now extended to mobile app development, desktop app development, and game development.
* Due to high demand, there is tons of job growth and high pay for those who know JavaScript.
* Great thing about JavaScript is that you will find tons of frameworks and Libraries already developed which can be used directly in your software development to reduce your time to market.

## JavaScript Applications

* **Client side validation** − This is really important to verify any user input before submitting it to the server and JavaScript plays an important role in validating those inputs at front-end itself.
* **Manipulating HTML Pages** − JavaScript helps in manipulating HTML page on the fly. This helps in adding and deleting any HTML tag very easily using JavaScript and modify your HTML to change its look and feel based on different devices and requirements.
* **User Notifications** − You can use JavaScript to raise dynamic pop-ups on the webpages to give different types of notifications to your website visitors.
* **Back-end Data Loading** − JavaScript provides Ajax library which helps in loading back-end data while you are doing some other processing.
* **Presentations** − JavaScript also provides the facility of creating presentations which gives website look and feel. JavaScript provides *RevealJS* and *BespokeJS* libraries to build a web-based slide presentation.
* **Server Applications** − Node JS is built on Chrome's JavaScript runtime for building fast and scalable network applications.
* **Machine learning** − Developers can use the *ML5.js* library to complete the task related to machine learning.
* **Game Developments** − JavaScript contains multiple libraries and NPM packages to design graphics for the game.
* **Mobile applications** − We can use frameworks like React Native to build feature-rich mobile applications.
* **Internet of Things (IoT)** − JavaScript is used to add functionality to devices like smartwatches, earbuds, etc.
* **Data visualization** − JavaScript contains the libraries like *D3.js* to visualize the data efficiently.
* **Cloud computing** − We can use JavaScript in serverless computing platforms like Cloudflare and AWS lambda to write and deploy functions on the cloud.