# Overview

## What is JavaScript?

It is an interpreted programming language with object-oriented capabilities.

JavaScript is a **single-threaded** programming language that we can use for client-side or server-side development. It is a **dynamically** typed programming language, which means that we dont care about variable data types while writing the JavaScript code.

## Client-Side JavaScript

Client-side JavaScript is the most common form of the language. The script should be included in or referenced by an HTML document for the code to be interpreted by the browser.

The JavaScript **client-side** mechanism provides many advantages over traditional CGI server-side scripts. For example, you might use JavaScript to check if the user has entered a valid e-mail address in a form field.

## Server-Side JavaScript

**Node.js** is one of the best and most popular JavaScript runtime environments for building the server of applications using JavaScript. Using Node.js, we can execute the JavaScript code outside the browser and manage the server task. The server tasks can be an interaction with the database, APIS, file handling, or maybe network communication. Due to the event-driven architecture of Node.js, it is faster than other server-side programming languages.

## Imperative vs. Declarative JavaScript

* **Imperative JavaScript** − In imperative JavaScript, we write code in the manner that the code describes the steps to get the output. So, we are concerned about the code execution flow and output both. For example, to sum all array elements, if we write code for loop, it explains each step to get the sum.
* **Declarative JavaScript** − In declarative JavaScript, we don't need to worry about execution flow, but we should get the correct output at the end. For example, we use a built-in array.reduce() method to get a sum of array elements. Here, we dont concern about how reduce() method is implemented in the library.